Hi, everyone.
In this letter, we're going to talk about the callback hell, all right, so in the e-mail, what we
have is we have a button that is that says get questions.
We have a container which we do not need.
So I'm just going to get rid of it.
And we have some styling for the buttons and styling for the paragraph in L.A., which I'm just going
to go ahead and remove it because we are just going to go and take a look at the data inside the console.
We are not going to print anything to the screen.
It just says that the getData function is not defined.
So I'm just going to change get data to questions because that is more appropriate.
Now, what do we want to do in this lecture?
In this lecture, I've added this folder here.
It says questions.
And inside these questions, we still have all those 10 questions.
But I've separated them into five files.
Right.
So question one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight and nine, 10.
So if you click on it, instead of having all 10 questions in one folder, I have separated them.
Sorry, in one file I have separated them in multiple files to mimic making API, making requests to
multiple API endpoints.
I just want to mimic that behavior.
So what would you do in that case?
So first off, let's go ahead and let's define the function, get questions.
All right.
And of course, we are going to be using our callback functions.
Our callback function that we have talked about.
So first off, let's go ahead and let's create that function expression.
And I'm going to say get questions, data.
And I'm going to pass and call back as a parameter, right, and now what are the first steps to making
any request?
Step number one.
Const.
Oh, I miss this Arace.
All right, so step number one is when we instantiate in New York City our object.
So I'm just going to say data and I'm going to say new X amount ETP request.
This is step number one.
Step number two is to provide or to set up the request to create that request.
So we are going to DataDot open.
And first, what is the HTP method that is get now we are making requests to our local files?
All right, so this is the this is the source or you are URL or request your URL that we are going to
provide.
But there is a difference here because we are making requests to multiple API endpoints or in this case,
multiple JSON files at the same time.
I cannot just go ahead and hard code one of them.
We need to come up with a way so we can grab each one of them and make a request to each one of them
individually.
So I'm just going to provide in here are questions, right?
I'm just going to say questions and I'm going to provide true for asynchronous programming.
Now, this questions is also going to be Pastan with this callbacks.
So I'm just going to say questions.
And based on this questions, we are going to misspell it.
And based on the questions, we are going to provide the resource sorry, the source for these questions,
whenever we call this get questions data.
OK, when we are done with this, you remember in the previous lecture we called it and in the function
call we passed the callback functions definition.
Right.
And we are going to do that.
Now, the third step is to make sure that we have a status of 200 and to also print out the error if
there is an error.
So we are going to data that a listener.
We are going to listen for a real estate change.
Kind of forgot the name Redis State Change.
All right, and we are going to run a function here, so if the this DOT's status, this part, we have
done a lot.
So I'm just going to breeze over it and we have this ready state equals to four.
So what do we want to do?
We want to, of course, grab our data and we want to pass it as well.
We just want to grab data which is readable.
James.
So I'm going to say questions right.
ReFED and I'm going to say Jason Dirt pass.
Jason should pass what?
It should pass data.
I'm just going to say this DOT response text, we can do this, the response text as well.
Now, here is where I'm going to call our callback function for the error.
I'm going to pass an undefined and for the data we're going to pass in questions retrieved and al-assaf
out of this dot ready state equals four.
What do we want to do?
We want to call our callback function.
And we are going to say error fetching data.
And as far as the data is concerned, it is this stage and defined.
All right.
So we are done with the when we are done with this third stage, which is the stage, when we get the
data, what do we want to do with that?
So let's.
Aerojet date.
Where is it coming from?
Call back in.
Better get data stick.
Look at this.
Oh, I hope so.
I didn't see this.
So now it's gone within, we don't need to go there.
Response.
Oh, come on, buddy.
All right.
So we are done with this now.
We are going to move on and on.
One final thing is DataDot.
So let's send the request.
So now we need to call this get questions, data, and we need to define our callback function as well.
So I'm going to come down here now.
This is where the callback hell starts to take shape.
All right.
So we are going to say get questions, data.
We are going to call it now inside the function called, we are going to define our callback function.
So we are going to say error.
The first parameter is going to be error.
The second parameter is going to be questions.
Questions, data.
Questions.
Now, there is something else in here as well, and that is the questions.
So we need to arguments because here we have two parameters.
So this is this part belongs to this call back.
What about this function?
What about these questions?
Because we said we need to provide the source for that.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to provide a comma there and in here, I'm going to provide
the path for this questions and this path, because this is the argument.
It is going to be passed here and from the here.
Whenever we make an EPA request, it is going to be passed here.
So that path is eventually going to come right here where we say we set up the request.
So first off, what is the path?
The path works with any other path that we have covered so far.
First off, we need to go inside the questions folder.
So I'm going to say I'm going to say questions.
So now we are inside the questions for Foja.
And from there, I need to grab the four.
I'm going to grab the first one so I could just go ahead and say, can I rename this file?
I could just say, copy it and put it right here so you really understand what we are doing here.
So this is the first argument for questions and this is the second argument for callback.
Very simple, right?
So in here, what do we want to do?
I just want to print the questions data so we could say console the log questions data.
So now we have grabbed our first file.
What about the second one?
Now this is where things get interesting and things get really, really messy.
So the second part is going to be the second callback function.
Now, the first callback function is going to grab this YORO, and it is going to make a request to
this YAARA.
The second callback function is going to make a request to another you.
So we need to create another instance of that callback function.
All right.
But the thing is, whenever you want to create you want to make another instance of that callback function,
you need to call this question's data once more because that callback function is created in the in
the function call for this get questions data.
So I'm going to say get now, keep in mind that they should be inside.
If you go outside this question's data, it is not going to work.
It is actually going to override one another.
So inside this, you can see this is where this question, this original questions data is going to
end right here.
But we are not going to go outside it.
We are going to go inside.
And I can see this sort of like training that is going to happen here.
So we are going to say get questions, data.
And again, here, I'm going to just go ahead and copy this.
I'm going to pass it here and now.
This time it is questions three and four.
So this time it is a different era.
And again, for the callback, we need to define callback one more once more.
All right.
So I'm going to say questions, data.
And we just want to counsel our questions straight, so I'm just going to put it right here.
No, you can see that how messy this can get.
I'm not going to save it for now because the prettier code for my is going to rearrange everything.
So I could just go ahead and disable that for now from it and save just going to grab the tick mark
off.
All right.
So I'm going to come down here, but still inside this, we are going to make a request to the other
Eurail that we have.
So I'm going to say get questions, data.
Let's pass this end and this time because we got three, and for now it is five and six and again we
are going to say error.
And questions, data, and let's create this function, right?
So can I make this smarter?
No, I can just make I can make this.
Come on, buddy.
We can make this one bigger, so you can really see what's happening here, so I'm going to grab this
Consolo now.
You can see that we only have control logs in here.
What if you have multiple lines of code?
What if you have that if statement from the previous lecture, then this code you will you know, now
that this code is going to get really messy, let's try to create it a bit faster.
So I'm just going to put it right here.
I'm going to say seven and this is going to be eight and we are going to have the same callback function.
I'm just going to copy that, put it right here.
And we are going to.
But this one here as well.
OK, well, that goes in here.
Oh, come on, buddy.
OK, so inside this, what I'm going to do is so we do have our proper format, all right, we have
no errors and so we have made requests to seven and eight.
Let's go ahead and let's make requests to nine and 10, which are the final ones.
So I'm just going to grab this questions, Jason, and I'm going to put it right here.
We are going to say nine and ten.
I know it's a lot, but I'm trying to prove a point here.
So we have questions, data, questions, data and provide the arrow, and in here, finally, we are
just going to provide the question state.
So now you can see that this is called callback help.
You can see how ugly this is, how difficult the system in turn.
And if there are more more requests, you're going to end up with more callbacks.
You if the callbacks, you can induce very specific things.
With the callbacks, you're going to end up with more lines of code than just a console like.
So if I were to just go ahead and save all of this and click on it, we can see that we are we are getting
our data.
So the first one comes from line number two in it.
And if I click on it, we can see that it is actually an array.
All right.
Because we have passed it right here.
We have said, Jason, that pass.
Right.
And we get so these are the cat's questions.
These are the the dog's questions.
These are the bird's questions.
And these are the ALC questions as well as the wolf's questions.
So this is how you you are going to make API requests to different you URLs, ETP request.
Right.
And you can see that when one is completed, then the next one is run.
When the other one is completed, then the next one is run.
So you have time to do something with this data.
When you receive this data, maybe you want to do something with it.
So this is called this is a very, very small example of a callback.
Hell, we are not going to be working with callbacks.
We will be working mostly with fetch and async await when we get to our projects.
But you need to know this old school way of doing X H.E.R object, these all of these methods and all
these properties which are added here, the callback hell, by the end of this chapter you'll end up
with a much cleaner method and much faster and and very, very lesser lines of code.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.